Problem

You have everything that you need for your Raspberry Pi, and you
want to connect it all together.

Solution

Unless you are embedding your Raspberry Pi in a project or using it
as a media center, you need to attach a keyboard, mouse, monitor, and
probably a WiFi dongle, unless you have a Raspberry Pi 3.
Figure shows a typical Raspberry Pi system.
Figure. A typical Raspberry Pi system
Discussion
The Raspberry Pi is perfectly happy with pretty much any keyboard
or mouse, wired or wireless. The exception to this is Bluetooth wireless
keyboards and mice, which will not work with the Raspberry Pi.
If you have an older Raspberry Pi or a model A or A+ and run out of
USB sockets, then you will also need a USB hub.

Start by inserting the micro SD card into the dedicated micro SD
card slot on the Raspberry Pi. This is located on the underside of the
Pi.
If you need an internet connection, plug in your Ethernet cable.
(Optional)
Then plug in your HDMI cable. The other end of the cable should be
plugged into your TV or Monitor. If you are using a TV, make sure you
have the correct input selected. Make sure your TV/Monitor is turned on.
Now we need to plug in our Keyboard and Mouse into the USB ports on
the Raspberry Pi.

Once you have double checked everything has been connected
properly, it’s time to plug in your micro usb power supply. With the
power supply plugged in, turn on the power supply.
If this is the first time you have powered on your Raspberry Pi,
and you have a NOOBS Micro SD card, you will need to install an Operating
System. Simply select one from the list. You can see more Operating
Systems when you are connected to the internet via an Ethernet cable.
Once the OS has been installed your Pi should automatically reboot.
This time your Pi should boot into the installed OS.
If you have installed Raspbian (the recommended OS) the default
username and password is:
Username: pi
Password: raspberry
RECOVERY
If you managed to break your OS install, or you simply want to
start from fresh again, you can do so easily using the NOOBs recovery
feature.
To access this, you need to hold down the Left Shift key on the
keyboard immediately after turning on the Raspberry Pi. Keep Shift
pressed until the recovery menu displays.

You should see a list of the operating systems, and a x next to the
OS you currently have installed. To simply overwrite your existing
install, press the Install button. You will then have a prompt letting
you know that all data on the SD card will be deleted. If you are happy
with everything being removed, click YES to continue and re-install the
OS.
If you would like to change operating systems, simply untick the
currently installed OS and tick the OS you want to install. Like above,
you'll be told that all data will be removed. Clicking YES will continue
the process and delete your existing OS, and install the newly selected
OS.
