Problem

You want to know how to connect an LED to the Raspberry Pi.

Solution

Connect an LED to one of the GPIO pins using a 470Ω or 1kΩ series
resistor to limit the current. To make this recipe, you will need:
 Breadboard and jumper wires
 470Ω resistor
 LED
Figure shows how you can wire this LED using a solderless
breadboard and male-to-female jumper leads.
Figure. Connecting an LED to a Raspberry Pi
Having connected the LED, we need to be able to turn it on and off
using commands from Python.
Start a Python console from the Terminal with superuser access and
enter these commands:
pi@raspberrypi ~ $ sudo python
>>> import RPi.GPIO as GPIO
>>> GPIO.setmode(GPIO.BCM)
>>> GPIO.setup(18, GPIO.OUT)
>>> GPIO.output(18, True)
>>> GPIO.output(18, False)
This will turn your LED on and off.

Discussion

LEDs are a very useful, cheap, and efficient way of producing
light, but you do have to be careful how you use them. If they are
connected directly to a voltage source (such as a GPIO output) that is
greater than about 1.7 volts, they will draw a very large current. This
can often be enough to destroy the LED or whatever is providing the
current—which is not good if your Raspberry Pi is providing the current.
You should always use a series resistor with an LED because the series
resistor is placed between the LED and the voltage source, which limits
the amount of current flowing through the LED to a level that is safe for
both the LED and the GPIO pin driving it. Raspberry Pi GPIO pins are only
guaranteed to provide about 3mA or 16mA of current (depending on the
board and number of pins in use). LEDs will generally illuminate with any
current greater than 1mA, but will be brighter with more current.
Use Table as a guide to selecting a series resistor based on the type of
LED; the table also indicates the approximate current that will be drawn
from the GPIO pin.
LED type Resistor Current (mA)
Red 470Ω 3.5
Red 1kΩ 1.5
Orange, yellow, green 470Ω 2
Orange, yellow, green 1kΩ 1
Blue, white 100Ω 3
Blue, white 270Ω 1
Table. Selecting series resistors for LEDs and a 3.3V GPIO pin
As you can see, in all cases, it is safe to use a 470Ω resistor. If
you are using a blue or white LED, you can reduce the value of the series
resistor considerably without risk of damaging your Raspberry Pi.
If you want to extend the experiments that you made in the Python
console into a program that makes the LED blink on and off repeatedly,
you could type the following code into the IDLE or nano editors. Save the
file as led_blink.py.
import RPi.GPIO as GPIO
import time
GPIO.setmode(GPIO.BCM)
GPIO.setup(18, GPIO.OUT)
while (True):
GPIO.output(18, True)
time.sleep(0.5)
GPIO.output(18, False)
time.sleep(0.5)
Remember that to run the program, you must have superuser
privileges for the RPi.GPIO library, so you need to use this command:
pi@raspberrypi ~ $ sudo python led_blink.py
